pages 3
--- page 1 ---
DI22001 - Algorithms and Artificial Intelligence 
AI Project Assignment 
This assignment is designed to give you an opportunity to apply Artificial Intelligence to a real-
world problem, by defining a problem, obtaining relevant data, modelling it as needed 
according to the definition of the problem, obtaining insights using the search strategies 
covered in the module, and linking your work to relevant aspects of algorithms and their 
complexity. This assignment is to be conducted in teams of 5 students and is worth 30% of 
the module mark. 
 
Brief 
 
Building on lecture materials and lab exercises, your task is to identify an interesting problem 
that can be solved, at least in part, by three of the search strategies we have studied  in 
the AI part of the module. The choice of problem is unrestricted, but the size of the work 
must be suitable for the available time (almost 6 weeks) and group size (5 people). 
 
In choosing your problem and planning your work, keep in mind the four questions we have 
discussed in class: 
 
1. What is the AI problem that we want to solve? 
2. Why it is an important problem to solve? 
3. How can we solve it? 
4. How can we solve it in a better way (faster, more robust, and efficient)? 
 
You don’t need  to produce a project proposal this year, but you are still encouraged to  
discuss your ideas  with us. Be prepared to describe your problem and its significance, the 
dataset you will use, and what results you expect to get from the analysis. We will provide 
feedback in terms of scope and suitability of the project. Based on this feedback, you should 
carry out any preparations of the data and infrastructure to solve your  problem. You 
should collect and interpret any results in terms of the problem definition, of the 
performance of the chosen search strategies, and of their real -world meaning. Finally, you  
should critically assess your work, identifying challenges, limitations, and opportunities for 
improvement. Pay special attention to aspects of your approach that link the analysis to the 
algorithms involved and their complexity (e.g. if you are forced to reduce the size of your 
dataset so that you can run the analysis algorithms within your time and memory constraints). 
 
You will report on your work in a  15-minute presentation to the lecturing team and the rest 
of the class. The presentation should focus on the problem and its relevance, and the 
results and interpretation of your results, avoiding technical details. At the end of the project, 
you will submit a written report in which you can describe in more detail your approach,  the 
strategies you used, your results and their interpretation, possible future enhancements, 
and any relevant considerations linking your work to relevant algorithms and their complexity. 
--- page 2 ---
Above and beyond 
 
Consider going beyond the project brief, by incorporating advanced techniques that were 
briefly covered in class. Possible extensions include, but are not limited to: 
• using CSP, planning to solve part of your problem, in addition to the 
three search strategies 
• developing a good, accessible interface to allow users to interact with 
your tools and data 
• using machine/deep learning techniques to solve part of your problem 
 
Up to 20% of the project’s mark will come from extensions to material covered in class. 
 
Submission & Assessment 
 
This coursework is due for submission via MyDundee (under Assessment Area > 
Assessment: AI Project > ...) , including presentation slides, final report, and 
implementation code. 
 
Deadlines: 
 
• The project assignment is due on Wednesday 10 June (Week 15). 
 
Project presentations will take place during Week 1 5 (presentation schedule to be 
announced during Week 14). The slides and presentation are worth 30% of your 
total grade for this assignment. The report is also worth 30% of your total grade for 
this assignment. The implementation code is worth 20% of your total grade for 
this assignment. The remaining 20% of your total grade for this assignment will be given 
based on above and beyond as explained above. 
Submissions should be made by one member of your team. All elements submitted 
should include the names and matriculation numbers of all team members. 
Your submissions should be as follows: 
 
• Professional-looking slides for a 10-minute presentation as a 
PowerPoint or PDF document , including the title of your project, the 
names of the participants, a description of the problem and its 
relevance, a description of your dataset and your approach to solving  
the problem using search strategies, the results of your analysis and their 
interpretation, anything you have done that is above and beyond the scope 
of the brief, and a conclusion; All the implementation code that you created 
and used in your assignment as a ZIP file, readable, fully  commented and 
with suitable references to any code re-used; A 2-page prof essional-
looking report (~1500 words, excluding any  references and figure)  as a 
Word or PDF document , with word count given,  describing your
--- page 3 ---
problem, the dataset, your approach to solving it, the results you 
obtained and their interpretation, possible future enhancements,  and 
any relevant considerations linking your work to the algorithms involved 
and their complexity. 
Check that the contents of your files are correct; keep a copy of what you submit in case 
there are problems with your submission. 
 
Peer Reviews 
 
The marks and feedback resulting from your submissions will be your group’s mark. 
Individual marks are calculated based on the peer reviews, and this is the only way we can 
incorporate individual contributions to groupwork. It is essential that all team members 
submit a peer review which quantifies their own and other members' contributions to 
the work. 
Peer reviews are moderated by the module lecturers and any changes to an individual mark 
(upwards or downwards) from the team mark will result from consensus in peer reviews 
from the entire team as to how much an individual contributed to the total workload. 
 
If you have awarded someone in your team a greater or lesser contribution than others, 
please provide comments to justify your decision. In doing so, you may wish to reflect upon 
the following: 
 
• were tasks outlined and were these agreed and clear to everyone in the group 
and when the deadlines were; 
• did people contribute and complete their tasks to the best of their ability; 
• where tasks completed on time; 
• did people attend group meetings; 
• did people communicate well and keep each other aware of progress; 
• were the contributions adequate and to an acceptable standard (bearing in mind 
different skill levels within the team). 
 
Peer reviews will be submitted via MyDundee.  An assignment will be set up nearer the 
time of the deadline. 
 
Presentations 
 
Each team will be allocated a 15 -minute slot for presenting their work.  Presentations 
should last 10 minutes, with 5 minutes left for questions from the audience. Every team 
member should be present in the presentation, but not everyone must speak. 
Avoid technical details in your presentation and focus on the 4 questions above. Describe 
your problem and motivate its relevance. Present the source and properties of your data. 
Discuss the search strategies and, if applicable, any other techniques you used to solve 
the problem. Describe the results and, crucially, their interpretation in terms of the real -
world problem you chose to address. Motivate your audience to engage with the 
problem and with your results. 
 